We'd like to begin our discussion with the importance of buying truth personally
And no one else can do that for us
And then we'll talk just for a moment about how much effort it takes to do that
Let's begin our discussion with something that happened to King David of Israel
He wanted to buy a threshing floor from a man named Arona
And he wanted to offer up sacrifices to Jehovah
But Arona they land on her said look David take the threshing floor. I'll give you the cattle
I'll give you whatever you need just take it and worship Jehovah
But how did David respond?
At 2 Samuel 24 verse 24 he said this I will not offer up to Jehovah my God
Burnt sacrifices that cost me nothing
David realized that it had to be his personal sacrifice in order for it to have value
Likewise when we buy truth we have to pay for it and affect ourselves
How much effort does it take?
Well, let's open our Bibles to the book of 2 Peter chapter 1 and
Let's look at a couple of expressions here that will help us to appreciate
The effort that's required
2 Peter chapter 1 verse 5
For this very reason put forth all earnest effort to supply to your faith
Virtue to your virtue
Knowledge
So we're always having to add to supply to our knowledge of the truth and what kind of effort earnest effort
sincere
Strenuous with depth of feeling
conscientious
And how about this matter of supplying knowledge?
The original Greek now here used meant leader of a chorus. What does that have to do with supply?
Well back in the day when this was written
If a city wanted to put on a stage play and they had a chorus
Men of the city who had money would actually go into their own pockets and
pay for the training and the maintenance of that chorus for the city and
They had to spend a lot, but they were willing to do it for what they consider to be a worthy cause
So it was a personal sacrifice on their part
So likewise no one else can
Read for us
Study for us research for us
Meditate for us. It has to be personal and it has to be done sincerely
But now you know, though we get the truth and we're glad that we have
We want to make sure that we never sell it. We never lose it
Now these are expressions by and sell their business expressions, aren't they?
Well, let's see what principles in the Bible can help us to be on guard
Against the devil in this system who are always trying to get us to sell or to get rid of our truth
Let's go this time to the book of Proverbs chapter 20 and we want to look at verse 14
Proverbs 20 verse 14
Now this is a dishonest businessman and notice what he does
It is no good. It is no good says the buyer
Then he goes away and boasts about himself
So he sees something he wants
But he doesn't want to pay the the value
So he runs down the product. He criticizes it. It makes it look like it's inferior and then the seller if he's not
Aware and alert. He will actually sell his product for far less than it's worth
Practically nothing and then this dishonest buyer goes off and he brags about it
well
Buyers are not the only ones that can be dishonest
Sellers can be dishonest too can't they this is the product you need is exactly what you want
But they don't tell you about the long history of problems that it's has
They don't tell about the cost that it takes to maintain it
And the difficulties that come with owning that product all they want you to do is buy this beautiful product
Well, how can we take that principle and apply it to what Satan and his system tries to do to
us
Jehovah warned about those who say this as recorded at Isaiah 520
Woe to those who say that good is bad and bad is good
So Satan with all of his cunning and his deception
Well try to say to us you know that truth that you purchased
That was a bad purchase
It's too burdensome
It took away your freedom
You've lost your independence
Now I've got some products that will really make you happy right now
Well, we know that in the business world the buyer always has to separate the facts
from the salesman's
Empty or foolish talk or his nonsense not all salesman like that but many are
So we have to be careful that we don't buy into something that seems so good
But in reality
Doesn't have value at all
So how do we fight all of this propaganda from the system of things around us to make us feel that we made a bad purchase
with the truth
Well, we have a very good example in Jesus
Remember the time when the devil came to him is recorded in Matthew chapter 4
And the devil said to him
I'm going to give you all the kingdoms of the world in their glory
And all you have to do is one act of worship to me
How did Jesus respond
Go away Satan
He knew that that was a lie and he knew it was nonsense
But how did he support and protect his truth
He went to the truth
He said to Satan it is written
It is Jehovah your God you must worship and it is to him alone you must render sacred service
Well
That was the truth from God's word
And that's how we can protect our truth that we've worked so hard
To obtain and to maintain
We use the scriptures the truth from Jehovah to defend our precious purchase
So may we continue to do that and not be fooled by the system of things and all of its glitter that it says it wants to give to us
Now and considering what we've talked about thus far
personal effort
And never letting the truth go because we viewed it so valuable
We can talk just briefly about the Apostle Paul
At Acts chapter 22 and verse 3
He talked about his previous education obtaining knowledge
And he said I was educated at the feet of Gamaliel
And instructed according to the strictness of the ancestral law and zealous for God
Saul as he was known then
Was being trained at the feet of one of the most famous and renowned teachers in the first century Gamaliel
What did Gamaliel teach
He promoted belief in the oral law and he placed greater emphasis on the oral law than the inspired scriptures
So when the Hebrew scriptures didn't say specifically or explicitly what a person should do
Men like Gamaliel would came up with all of these oral traditions through the years
And they knew them well and the rabbis
Would make the decision for the person not the person
In fact
Gamaliel was so esteemed that he was the first to be called rabbi which was a title higher than a rabbi
And Paul had to learn all of this oral tradition
And research shows that it was a very painstaking relentless training program
Where they had to memorize all of these voluminous laws and make it their own
There would be benefits in the secular world
prestige
But when Paul learned the truth
What did he do?
He came to appreciate Mark 7 and 7 and 8 when Jesus said
It is in vain that they keep worshiping me
For they teach commands of men as doctrines
You let go the commandment of God and cling to the tradition of men
So Paul understood he thought he had something of value
But it was all in vain
And from the time that he accepted in both the truth
He never let it go did he?
Regardless of the pain and the suffering and the sacrifices he made he considered it all worth it
What a fine example of personally buying at great sacrifice
And as the years went by
Paul never sold the truth, it he
At Philippians chapter 3
He talked about his life as a servant of God
And he had no regrets
He said what he gave up was a lot of refuse
And the original terms here could indicate dung or food garbage
He made the right purchase didn't he
And when he taught and when he wrote an inspiration
We do not hear the Apostle Paul say when I was with Gamelil this is what he said
Or Gamelil would do this in this case never
He always went back to the real truth
The truth from Jehovah's inspired word
What a fine example for us all
So what have we learned this morning?
Truth is valuable and it's worth every personal effort to attain it
But be careful
Don't let the devil fool us into believing we made a bad purchase
Resist the devil in this system
And as a result we'll have no regrets over our decision
We'll always be so grateful that we took the time and effort to buy truth
And we've held onto it and then the God of truth
We'll reward us for everlasting with everlasting life